In this section we're going to cover
2 elements in suspension setup
Ride height and rake
Ride height is really important
on cars that have
a lot of aerodynamic force
or under wings like an IndyCar
and it's still important
on sports cars because
they're getting some
airflow underneath the car
The ride height is the
distance from the ground plane
to the bottom of the car usually
measured at the front and rear axle
and the difference
between the two we call the rake
and the rake can change the
aerodynamic behavior of the car
the high-speed handling of the car
So it's a key parameter for
tuning any kind of car,
to get the right
balance at high speed
Naturally you'd like to run
the car as low as possible
but they're are
some other considerations
For sure you want
the car as low as possible
but if you lower a streetcar
down until it hits the ground
now the suspension geometry
is going to be all out of its
ideal operating range.
So now you've created more problems.
So you want the car as low
as possible but you also want
The system and suspension to be
designed around
that low ride height
You want the car to be just
touching the ground
at the highest speed or
highest loading condition on the track
and not be dragging on the
ground because that'll slow you down
So you try and lower
the car as much as you can
before it hits the ground,
based on everything else
that you are tuning on the car
Ride height adjustment
also allows you
to change the rake
or the cars angle of attack
Rake is the difference between
front and rear ride height
So positive rake would be
the rear higher than the front
and you might do
that if you want to
move the center of
pressure of the under wing,
the aerodynamic forces forward,
to reduce understeer
because that would put more
pressure on the front tires
reducing high-speed understeer
or the other way
you might put in negative rake
where the rear is
lower than the front
so that you put more
aerodynamic force on the rear tires
and maybe fix a
high speed oversteer condition
So you use the rake to tune the
aerodynamic balance of the car
by moving the center
pressure forward or rearward
but at the same time
rake might affect
the suspension geometry,
so it's not easy...
You need to think about
what it's doing to
your breaking, accelerating,
and corning forces, as well as
the high-speed
aerodynamics
A weight jacker
is a tool we use
to adjust the
right to rear
corner weights and
ride heights on IndyCars
The weight jacker basically
gets taller and shorter
and thereby increases
the height and the load
on the right rear corner and
in that way it adjusts
the handling of the car
differently than the anti-rollbars
Basically, by adding weight on
the left front, right rear diagonal
by increasing the weight jacker,
the car will tend to oversteer
and if you take weight off
the right rear, left front,
In other words,
put it on opposite corner
it will start to understeer
So you basically
adjust the weight dynamically
with the weight jackers on track,
to adjust the handling
SAFEisFAST.com